[EDU-6497] Edge AI Starter Kit guide (#1660)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/guides/marketplace/templates/edge-ai-starter-kit.mdx

---

## Deploying the template

You can obtain and configure your template through the Azion Console. To easily deploy it at the edge, click the button below.

<LinkButton
    label="Deploy"
    link="https://console.azion.com/create/starter-kit-edge-ai"
    icon="ai ai-azion"
    icon-pos="left"
  />

---

## Setting up the template

In the configuration form, you must provide the information to configure your application. Fill in the presented fields. 

Fields identified with an asterisk are mandatory.

1. Define a name for your edge application.
    - The bucket for storage and the edge function will use the same name.
    - Use a unique and easy-to-remember name. If the name has already been used, the platform returns an error message.
2. Click the **Deploy** button to start the deployment process.

During the deployment, you'll be able to follow the process through a window showing the logs. When it's complete, the page shows information about the application and some options to continue your journey.

:::note

> The link to the edge application allows you to see it on the browser. However, it takes a certain time to propagate and configure the application in Azion's edge locations. It may be necessary to wait a few minutes for the URL to be activated and for the application page to be effectively displayed in the browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The link to the edge application allows you to see it on the browser. However, it takes a certain time to propagate and configure the application in Azion's data centers. It may be necessary to wait a few minutes for the URL to be activated and for the application page to be effectively displayed in the browser.
```

:::

---

## Managing the template

Considering that this initial setup may not be optimal for your specific edge application, all settings can be customized any time you need by using Azion's platform.

### Updating the edge function

This template includes an AI-enabled edge function that is ready to run. This function receives a POST request to the desired AI model and returns the response.

```ts
const modelResponse = await Azion.AI.run("ista-daslab-gemma-3-27b-it-gptq-4b-128g", {
  "stream": true,
  "messages": [
    {
      "role": "system",
      "content": "You are a helpful assistant."
    },
    {
      "role": "user",
      "content": "Name the european capitals"
    }
  ]
})
return modelResponse
```

> This example uses the [Gemma3 model](/en/documentation/products/ai/edge-ai/models/gemma-3/). You can change the model and the request parameters according to your preferences. Check the [AI models reference](/en/documentation/products/ai/edge-ai/models/) for more information about the available models and how to use them in your application.

Reviewer: Aqui fala em Gemma 3: https://www.azion.com/en/documentation/products/ai/edge-ai/models/gemma-3/ mas aqui Gemma3: https://www.azion.com/pt-br/documentacao/produtos/ai/edge-ai/modelos/gemma-3/
Padronizar em todos os docs.
```suggestion
This example uses the [Gemma 3 model](/en/documentation/products/ai/edge-ai/models/gemma-3/). You can change the model and the request parameters according to your preferences. Check the [AI models reference](/en/documentation/products/ai/edge-ai/models/) for more information about the available models and how to use them in your application.
```
